docs/commands/common.md, before:

![Wirecli Logo](/assets/img/favicon-16x16.png){.logo} **Common**

---

## New

General ProcessWire installation.

```sh
$ wirecli new {directory}*
```

\* This argument is optional. If you want to install into the current directory, just skip it.

### Available options:

```sh
--dbUser : Database user
--dbPass : Database password
--dbName : Database name
--dbHost : Database host, default: `localhost`
--dbPort : Database port, default: `3306`
--dbEngine : Database engine, default: `MyISAM`
--dbCharset : Database characterset, default: `utf8`
--timezone : Timezone
--chmodDir : Directory mode, default `755`
--chmodFile : File mode, defaults `644`
--httpHosts : Hostname without `www` part
--adminUrl : Admin url
--username : Admin username
--userpass : Admin password
--useremail : Admin email address
--profile : Default site profile: `path/to/profile.zip` OR one of `beginner, blank, classic, default, languages`
--src : Path to pre-downloaded folder, zip or tgz: `path/to/src`
--sha : Download specific commit
--no-install : Disable installation
--v : Increase the verbosity of messages
```

### Examples

Download and unzip ProcessWires master branch into current directory.

```sh
$ wirecli new --no-install
```

Download and unzip ProcessWires master branch into specific directory.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --no-install
```

Use pre-downloaded source.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --src=Downloads/ProcessWire
```

Custom profile ProcessWire installation.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --profile=/path/to/myprofile.zip
```

Use predefined profile `languages`.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --profile=languages
```

Download and install specific commit.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --sha=cffb682836517065d7dd7acf187545a4a80f1769
```

---

## Upgrade

Updates ProcessWire to latest stable release.
If you don't provide any option, defaults to `master` (latest stable) branch.

```sh
$ wirecli upgrade
```

### Available options:

```sh
--sha : Download specific commit
--check : Just check for core upgrades.
--download : Just download core upgrades.
```

### Examples

Check if an update is available.

```sh
$ wirecli upgrade --check
A ProcessWire core upgrade is available: dev 3.0.34
```

Just download update, do not install.

```sh
$ wirecli upgrade --download
```

---

## Status

Output information on current ProcessWire installation and server environment.
You can get additional information about PHP versions and paths and/or image diagnostics

```sh
$ wirecli status
```

### Available options:

```sh
--image : get image diagnostics
--php : get diagnose about PHP versions and paths
--pass : display database password
```

### Examples

Output information about current ProcessWire installation as well as php versions/paths and image diagnostics.

```sh
$ wirecli status --php --image

 ========================= ===============================
  ProcessWire
 ========================= ===============================
  Version                   3.0.33 (upgrade available: 3.0.34)
  Admin URL                 /processwire/
  Advanced mode             Off
  Debug mode                On
  Timezone                  Europe/Berlin
  HTTP hosts                pw.dev, www.pw.dev
  Admin theme               AdminThemeDefault
  Prepended template file   _init.php
  Appended template file    _main.php
  Database host             localhost
  Database name             pw
  Database user             xxx
  Database password         *****
  Database port             3306
  Installation path         /Users/xxx/pw
 ========================= ===============================

 =============== =====================
  wirecli
 =============== =====================
  Version         1.0.2
  Documentation   http://wirecli.pw
  License         MIT
 =============== =====================

 ========================= ===============================
  PHP Diagnostics
 ========================= ===============================
  Version                   5.6.16
  Handler                   Command Line Interface
  System Information        xxx
  Timezone
  Max Memory                128M
  Max execution time        0
  Maximum input time        -1
  Upload Max Filesize       1G
  Post Max Size             8M
  Max Input Vars            1000
  Max Input Nesting Level   64
  XDebug Extension          is loaded (*)
 ========================= ===============================

 ===================== ====================================
  Image Diagnostics
 ===================== ====================================
  GD library            Bundled (2.1.0 compatible)
  GD JPG Support        Supported
  GD PNG Support        Supported
  GD GIF Support        Supported
  GD FreeType Support   Supported
  Exif read data        Available
  Imagick Extension     Not available
 ===================== ====================================
```

---

## Debug

Change debug mode.

```sh
$ wirecli debug
```

### Available options:

```sh
--on : turn debug mode on
--off : turn debig mode off
```

---

## Serve

A wrapper for `php -S localhost:8000`, fires the small PHP web server and lets you bypass the configuration of a virtual host.
Mainly an example for passing through console commands.

```sh
$ wirecli serve
```

---

## List

List all available commands.

```sh
$ wirecli list

Available commands:
  help              Displays help for a command
  list              Lists commands
  new               Creates a new ProcessWire project
  serve             Serve ProcessWire via built in PHP webserver
  status            Returns versions, paths and environment info
  upgrade           Checks for core upgrades.
backup
  backup:db         Performs database dump
  ...
```

---


## Help

Display help for a  given command.

```sh
$ wirecli --help {command}
```

### Examples

```sh
$ wirecli --help page:create

Usage:
 page:create [--template="..."] [--parent="..."] [--title="..."] name

Arguments:
 name

Options:
 --template            Template
 --parent              Parent Page
 --title               Title
```

---

Commit message:

fix(cli): improve --src path handling, error messaging, and documentation for new command\n\nReferences: #16

docs/commands/common.md, after:

![Wirecli Logo](/assets/img/favicon-16x16.png){.logo} **Common**

---

## New

General ProcessWire installation.

```sh
$ wirecli new {directory}*
```

\* This argument is optional. If you want to install into the current directory, just skip it.

### Available options:

```sh
--dbUser : Database user
--dbPass : Database password
--dbName : Database name
--dbHost : Database host, default: `localhost`
--dbPort : Database port, default: `3306`
--dbEngine : Database engine, default: `MyISAM`
--dbCharset : Database characterset, default: `utf8`
--timezone : Timezone
--chmodDir : Directory mode, default `755`
--chmodFile : File mode, defaults `644`
--httpHosts : Hostname without `www` part
--adminUrl : Admin url
--username : Admin username
--userpass : Admin password
--useremail : Admin email address
--profile : Default site profile: `path/to/profile.zip` OR one of `beginner, blank, classic, default, languages`
--src : Path to pre-downloaded folder, zip or tgz: `path/to/src` (supports relative/absolute, spaces, and both / and \ slashes)
--sha : Download specific commit
--no-install : Disable installation
--v : Increase the verbosity of messages
```

**Note:**
- Paths for `--src` can be relative or absolute.
- Paths with spaces should be quoted: `--src="C:/path/with spaces/ProcessWire"`
- Both `/` and `\` slashes are supported and normalized automatically.
- If the path does not exist or is not accessible, a clear error message will be shown.

### Examples

Download and unzip ProcessWires master branch into current directory.

```sh
$ wirecli new --no-install
```

Download and unzip ProcessWires master branch into specific directory.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --no-install
```

Use pre-downloaded source.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --src=Downloads/ProcessWire
```

Custom profile ProcessWire installation.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --profile=/path/to/myprofile.zip
```

Use predefined profile `languages`.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --profile=languages
```

Download and install specific commit.

```sh
$ wirecli new /path/where/to/install --sha=cffb682836517065d7dd7acf187545a4a80f1769
```

---

## Upgrade

Updates ProcessWire to latest stable release.
If you don't provide any option, defaults to `master` (latest stable) branch.

```sh
$ wirecli upgrade
```

### Available options:

```sh
--sha : Download specific commit
--check : Just check for core upgrades.
--download : Just download core upgrades.
```

### Examples

Check if an update is available.

```sh
$ wirecli upgrade --check
A ProcessWire core upgrade is available: dev 3.0.34
```

Just download update, do not install.

```sh
$ wirecli upgrade --download
```

---

## Status

Output information on current ProcessWire installation and server environment.
You can get additional information about PHP versions and paths and/or image diagnostics

```sh
$ wirecli status
```

### Available options:

```sh
--image : get image diagnostics
--php : get diagnose about PHP versions and paths
--pass : display database password
```

### Examples

Output information about current ProcessWire installation as well as php versions/paths and image diagnostics.

```sh
$ wirecli status --php --image

 ========================= ===============================
  ProcessWire
 ========================= ===============================
  Version                   3.0.33 (upgrade available: 3.0.34)
  Admin URL                 /processwire/
  Advanced mode             Off
  Debug mode                On
  Timezone                  Europe/Berlin
  HTTP hosts                pw.dev, www.pw.dev
  Admin theme               AdminThemeDefault
  Prepended template file   _init.php
  Appended template file    _main.php
  Database host             localhost
  Database name             pw
  Database user             xxx
  Database password         *****
  Database port             3306
  Installation path         /Users/xxx/pw
 ========================= ===============================

 =============== =====================
  wirecli
 =============== =====================
  Version         1.0.2
  Documentation   http://wirecli.pw
  License         MIT
 =============== =====================

 ========================= ===============================
  PHP Diagnostics
 ========================= ===============================
  Version                   5.6.16
  Handler                   Command Line Interface
  System Information        xxx
  Timezone
  Max Memory                128M
  Max execution time        0
  Maximum input time        -1
  Upload Max Filesize       1G
  Post Max Size             8M
  Max Input Vars            1000
  Max Input Nesting Level   64
  XDebug Extension          is loaded (*)
 ========================= ===============================

 ===================== ====================================
  Image Diagnostics
 ===================== ====================================
  GD library            Bundled (2.1.0 compatible)
  GD JPG Support        Supported
  GD PNG Support        Supported
  GD GIF Support        Supported
  GD FreeType Support   Supported
  Exif read data        Available
  Imagick Extension     Not available
 ===================== ====================================
```

---

## Debug

Change debug mode.

```sh
$ wirecli debug
```

### Available options:

```sh
--on : turn debug mode on
--off : turn debig mode off
```

---

## Serve

A wrapper for `php -S localhost:8000`, fires the small PHP web server and lets you bypass the configuration of a virtual host.
Mainly an example for passing through console commands.

```sh
$ wirecli serve
```

---

## List

List all available commands.

```sh
$ wirecli list

Available commands:
  help              Displays help for a command
  list              Lists commands
  new               Creates a new ProcessWire project
  serve             Serve ProcessWire via built in PHP webserver
  status            Returns versions, paths and environment info
  upgrade           Checks for core upgrades.
backup
  backup:db         Performs database dump
  ...
```

---


## Help

Display help for a  given command.

```sh
$ wirecli --help {command}
```

### Examples

```sh
$ wirecli --help page:create

Usage:
 page:create [--template="..."] [--parent="..."] [--title="..."] name

Arguments:
 name

Options:
 --template            Template
 --parent              Parent Page
 --title               Title
```

---
